# The Machine

For all experiments, there is a warmup time, when more and more energy is being fed into the machine. (human)

There are adjustable controls for the characters to set: how far in space the teleport goes (distance from the machine), and how "far" in multiverse the teleport goes (i.e. how many adjacent universes get hopped). (human)

The machine can only communicate forward along the line of universes; they cannot communicate backwards. (human)

The multiverses are arranged along a 1-dimensional line. There is an adjacent universe forward and behind the current universe. (human)

With more power (or some kind of adjustable control), they can communicate with universe 2, 3, 4, etc. universes ahead. They can never communicate behind. (human)

We don't know if there is an infinite number of universes or a finite amount. (human)

OPEN QUESTION: Information being sent in each experiment needs to have a feedback section, two events back to back. Do the two events happen during two back-to-back experiments, or within the same experiment? (human)

All machines must fire and receive the swap at the same time, with no propagation delay between universes. But this may limit divergence. (human)

If the machine is transparent, they can catch a glimpse or preview of the image before it fully teleports in. (human)

In general, devise a mechanism for communication to propagate forward in time, across multiple universes (and potentially across multiple experiments). (human)

There must be a forward cause-and-effect chain in order for divergence to happen. The cause and effect go "forward" through adjacent universes. (human)

What matter is in the machine is sent "forward" to the next universe. That forward-bound matter appears at the external location in the forward universe (not inside that universe's machine). What appears inside the machine is matter from the backward universe, from that universe's external location. (human)

The decision of what to put in the machine must happen after you receive something from another universe. Or the other way around. (human)

It's not a one-way teleport, but a swap of matter between universes. (human)

It's not a swap from the same physical space in the universe. The teleport happens in two nearby places: space A is inside the machine, and space B is external to the machine. (human)

The primary part of the machine is a large hollow cylinder. It has a door/lock on one end to put things in and out of the chamber. (human)

Another part next to the machine bombards the chamber with special new physics high speed particles. This is the energy that is needed to do the interdimensional swap. (human)

OPEN QUESTION: how big is the chamber of the machine? (human)

OPEN QUESTION: energy is applied to the matter in the chamber, this makes sense that it then propels the chamber matter to the next dimension. But, if no particles/energies are being applied to the external spot, then how does it make sense that the external matter is able to propel to inside the chamber of the next dimension? (human)

Maybe the machine creates a wormhole in both directions at the same time, extending backward to the previous universe's external spot, and extending forward to the forward universe's external spot. Call this the 'double reach' model. (human)

The swap is a convenient feature to help prevent matter from transporting into a spot with existing matter. But it also requires a perfect coordination of all machines in all worlds. (human)

What if, in the 'double reach' model, one arm of the reach connects first before the other (like more energy rate in one arm over the other)? Could this mechanism be used to do delayed swaps? (human)

The team figures out a way to induce this causal delay, but only for about 10 seconds. (human)

If all universes turn on their machines at the same time, then all swaps happen at the same time. (human)

If adjacent universes turn on their machines at different times, then there can be a delay. (human)

OPEN QUESTION: If the backward universe didn't turn on their machine, what appears in your machine? Vacuum? (human)

Experiment idea: the team tries to count the full number of universes by writing a number on a piece of paper, sending it forward, and having the next universe add 1 before sending it onward. (human)

Possible outcomes for the counting experiment: (human)
- The number effectively stays "2" because all universes are incrementing in sync at the same time. (human)
- The number grows so large there is no room left on the paper; the visible written value stabilizes as a truncated value. (human)
- The number grows so large that teammates cannot finish reading it aloud before the next write/send step. (human)
- They switch to tally marks instead of numeric digits. (human)

With the first video-swap experiments, they confirm linear adjacency between universes by checking wall numbers visible in each other's lab background. (human)

The same video-swap experiments confirm they cannot send information "backward" across the universe line. (human)
